Clerk of the Circuit
Court of Cook County
A Guide to
Evictions
Where can tenants and landlords go for
free legal help with evictions?
Call 855-956-5763 or visit
cookcountylegalaid.org.
You can get help even if you do not yet have an
eviction case at court.
Tenants:
Landlords:
How do I file an eviction case?
Before starting a case, visit cookcountylegalaid.org for a
checklist and free legal resources for landlords.
To start an eviction case, the landlord (plaintiff) must file
the following documents with our office:
 Civil Action Cover Sheet
 Eviction Complaint
 Eviction Summons
 Flyer for Early Resolution Program (ERP)
 Plaintiff’s Certification of Compliance
 Tenant Declaration Form (if applicable)
 Eviction Demand or Notice
 Affidavit of Service of a Demand or Notice
 Written Lease Agreement (if applicable)
The landlord can also file an “Affidavit Supporting
Documents Not Attached to Eviction Complaint” if any of
the documents listed above are missing.
Information for Landlords & Tenants:
What happens after an eviction has been filed
against me?
Tenants will receive notice of an eviction case filed against
them through service of an eviction Summons and Complaint
by the Sheriff or a Special Process Server. Tenants will also
receive information about the Early Resolution Program (ERP)
with the ERP Summons and Complaint.
The Summons lists the court date and time that the tenant
must appear. Tenants should attend their court dates to fully
participate in their case.
How do I go to my first eviction court date?
All eviction cases are currently being heard remotely on
Zoom or by phone for the first court dates. You do no need to
go to the courthouse to appear for your first court date. The
Eviction Summons has information you need to go to court on
Zoom or by phone. You can also find this information on the
Court’s website cookcountycourt.org/HOME/Zoom-Links.
If you need help using Zoom to appear for your court date,
there are a limited number of Zoom stations with court staff
available to help at courthouses throughout Cook County.
Most forms needed for an eviction are available on our
website cookcountyclerkofcourt.org, in our offices, and
on the Illinois Supreme Court’s website illinoiscourts.gov.
Information about how to e-file court documents can be
found at efileillinoiscourts.gov. If you cannot e-file, you
can file in person at the Circuit Clerk’s office in the
courthouse by using an Exemption from E-Filing form.
For more information on evictions, visit the Chicago
Volunteer Legal Services (CVLS) website cvls.org.
What is the Early Resolution Program?
The Early Resolution Program (ERP) assists
unrepresented tenants and landlords in eviction
court. ERP is a part of the
Cook County Legal Aid for Housing and Debt
Program (CCLAHD).
All unrepresented tenants and landlords who
appear in court will be referred into ERP on their
first court date, where they will have access to free
legal aid, mediation services, negotiation
assistance, and rental assistance. Residents can
call the CCLAHD hotline at 855-956-5763 or visit
cookcountylegalaid.org for assistance.
www.cookcountyclerkofcourt.org @CookCountyClerkofCourt
This handout it not a substitute for legal advice.
FREE LEGAL HELP FOR RESIDENTS OF COOK COUNTY
Are you dealing with an eviction or unresolved debt issue?
Do you live in Cook County?
You are not in this alone. You may be eligible for FREE legal help.
Learn more by calling 855-956-5763 or visiting www.cookcountylegalaid.org
Evictions and unresolved debt
issues can have a long-lasting,
negative impact on your future.
Call the Early Resolution Program
(ERP) to speak with a lawyer and
get connected to other resources.
This program is available to all
residents of Cook County free of
charge. You do not need to have a
case in court to get help.
You can use the program if:
▶
You are a renter and your landlord is
trying to evict you;
▶
You are a landlord who is not
represented by a lawyer;
▶
You were sued by someone who wants
to collect an unpaid debt (for example
a credit card company trying to collect
unpaid charges); OR
▶
You need to sue someone who owes
you money and do not have a lawyer.
The Early Resolution Program (ERP) includes free legal aid, mediation services, and connections
to other resources including rental assistance. Mediation is a chance for a landlord and tenant,
or debtor and creditor, to resolve issues with the help of a knowledgeable and neutral person.
The Early Resolution Program is being provided through Cook County Legal Aid for Housing and
Debt (CCLAHD), a county-wide initiative to help resolve eviction, foreclosure, debt, and tax deed
issues. Visit www.cookcountylegalaid.org for information about other programs and services.
CARPLS Legal Aid
Center for Conflict Resolution
Center for Disability & Elder Law
Chicago Volunteer Legal Services
Greater Chicago Legal Clinic
Lawyers’ Committee for Better Housing
Legal Aid Chicago
Legal Aid Society